# Magento Image Optimizer

### <mark style="color:blue;">Optimize Magento Product, Category and Static Images Extension - Installation/Set-up Guide</mark>

* <mark style="color:orange;">**Disable Compilation Mode**</mark><mark style="color:orange;">:</mark> To check that this is disabled, go to **Admin -> System -> Tools ->Compilation**. If the compiler status is ‘**Disabled**’, you are ready to go. If not, simply click the ‘**Disable**’ button on the right-hand side of the screen.
* <mark style="color:orange;">**Upload Package:**</mark>** ** Upload the content of the module to your root folder. This will not overwrite the existing Magento folder or files, only the new contents will be added.
* <mark style="color:orange;">**Clear Caches:**</mark>** ** This can be done from the admin console by navigating to the cache management page (**Admin -> System->Cache Management**), selecting all caches, clicking ‘refresh’ from the drop-down menu, and submitting the change.
* <mark style="color:orange;">**Module Admin Configuration to set up sale:**</mark>** ** Go to **Admin->System->Configuration -> Scommerce Configurations –> Optimize Image**
  * **Enabled:** Enabled/Disabled.
  * **License Key:** Enter the licence key received in your order confirmation email.
  * **Compress Product Images via cron:** Enable Compression for Product Images via cron. This will compress all your existing product images and new images every 5 mins. We highly recommend leaving this on all the time because this will optimize and compress all the products images in the background
  * **Number of products processed with every attempt**: Define how many number of products you want to process when the cron job runs. Please note this number should be reasonable especially when you have multiple stores and many additional product images.
  * **Compress Cached Product Images:** This feature will further compress cached product images generated by Magento. We would recommend leaving this setting turned off especially when you clear your cached images frequently and you have more than 5 additional images on the product page. These cached images will be compressed and optimised as part of cron job.
  * **Compress New Product Images:** Enable Compression for new product images as soon as they are uploaded via Magento admin. We recommend this to be enabled because all the new product images will be compressed straight away
  * **Compress CMS Images:** Enable Compression for CMS Images which you upload from Wysiwyg editor within Magento admin
  * **Image Compression Provider:** Select the compression provider from the list. There are three providers in the drop down. Resmush, ImageOptim and Kraken IO. Resmush is free and for the other two subscribe at their websites.
  * **Provider API URL:** Provider API URL smush it - [http://api.resmush.it/ws.php?img](http://api.resmush.it/ws.php?img)**=** imageoptim - [https://im2.io/\{{username\}}/full/](https://im2.io/%7B%7Busername%7D%7D/full/) kraken - [https://api.kraken.io/v1/url](https://api.kraken.io/v1/url)
  * **API Key:** This will be required for certain providers like Kraken.io
  * **API Secret Key:** This will be required for certain providers like Kraken.io
  * **Thumbnail image sizes:** Provide thumbnail sizes for your product images in a comma separated format for example **50x,56x56,75x**. If you are not sure then you can either check sizes under **\media\cache\1\thumbnail folder** or just simply save the configuration
  * **Small image sizes**: Provide small image sizes for your product images in a comma separated format for example **135x,120x120,100x**. If you are not sure then you can either check sizes under **\media\cache\1\small\_image folder** or just simply save the configuration
  * **Image sizes:** Provide image sizes for your product images in a comma separated format for example **900x,988x988,750x**. If you are not sure then you can either check sizes under **\media\cache\1\image folder** or just simply save the configuration
  * **Override Cache Folder sizes:** This allows you to override default cache folder i.e. 9df78eab33525d08d6e5fb8d27136e95 either completely or by size. To replace completely just add the new cache folder name for example **040ec09b1e35df139433887a97daa66f** and for size it will be delimited for example **135x|040ec09b1e35df139433887a97daa66f; 125x125|17f82f742ffe127f42dca9de82fb58b1**
  * **Backup Images:** Enable this feature to backup original images before compressing original file
  * **Debugging:** This will create optimizeImages.log file under var/log folder

If you have a question related to this extension please check out our [**FAQ Section**](https://www.scommerce-mage.com/magento-image-optimizer.html#faq) **** first. If you can't find the answer you are looking for then please contact [**support@scommerce-mage.com**](mailto:core@scommerce-mage.com)**.**
